Hello everyone and welcome to the sparks streaming section of the course sparks streaming is an extension
of the Course part API that enables scalable high throughput fault tolerant stream processing of live
data streams.
Previously we've been working with data that's already been collected in this case we're going to move
on to actually accepting live data data can be ingested from many sources like Kafka flume Kinesis or
TCAP sockets and it can be processed using complex algorithms expressive high level functions like map
reduce join and window.
So what does it actually look like.
Well basically you have here in green on the left hand side whatever your data sources and that's streaming
live data.
So Kafka flume can ysis the effects.
Those are more of open source libraries for actually setting up an infrastructure for streaming.
Some of you may be more familiar with as just that consumer is something like Twitter where we have
streaming information from different users something different tweets.
And we're actually going to explore that in the section of the course.
So whatever your data sources Sparke streaming can then ingest it work with it and output it either
as HD effects into a database or into dashboards.
Showing you live feeds and later on in the course will actually show you how we can kind of make a pseudo
dashboard showing some live stats on Twitter and internally sparks streaming receives live input data
streams and it divides the data into batches which are then processed by the spark engine to generate
the final stream of results in batches.
So it basically looks like this.
The input data stream that's just coming live and then you have the batches of the input data coming
out after it goes through specked streaming and then it goes through the basic spark engine which actually
processes the batches of those data points.
Now for this course we're going to first work through just a very simple stream example and you're going
to need to be able to simultaneously use a Jupiter notebook and a terminal for this particular example
we're going to do it in the next lecture.
Essentially we're going to be doing is a pretty simple example where we treat our terminal as the input
of a live stream in a Jupiter notebook is going to mean to use for streaming to constantly take in the
batches of the data.
So we'll type something in our terminal and we'll be able to record it live as if it was a direct stream.
And as a quick to that particular lecture it's really easy to follow along through a local installation
using Virtual Box if you've been using something like E.S. to or EMR.
I would suggest you take a look at the virtual box installation lectures and follow along with those.
That's probably the easiest way to do it.
Now after working through that simple example will finish off the course with a Twitter analysis project
where we're kind of going to be making a bit of a pseudo dashboard just a little visualization spark
and Jupiter notebook and that visualization is going to update.
Let's say every 15 seconds with different counts on Twitter.
Now to follow along with that particular Twitter project you'll need to install a few visualization
libraries and set up a Twitter developer account.
And we're actually going to walk you through all those steps.
When the time comes during those lectures now for the various possible other data sources that we mentioned
earlier things like Kafka flume can ysis realistically we can't really show that in a single computer
setting and it's actually quite tedious to set up that entire task.
However if in your place of work you actually necessitate the use of one of those particular data sources.
Realistically it would be a work environment you wouldn't really run these data sources yourself for
personal use.
Sparke actually provides full integration guides that are really quite thorough.
So keep in mind that not every source version for instance that every version of Kafka is available
with the python API.
So let's jump to the documentation because I want to show you where you can find additional information
on Sparke streaming of actually has its own full documentation page.
And even then on the documentation page for each particular data source it has its own integration guide
so it's really quite thorough.
If this is something that needed to use at work you have the whole guide there and really thorough instructions.
So it's simpler to Spark's made documentation page and then we'll work through the actual Spahr extremely
documentation and show you where you can find everything.
After that we'll head on over to the next lecture where we begin actually coding out with Sparke streaming.
All right here I am at SPARC that Apache the org.
And I'm going to walk you through the documentation and I'm also going to talk about a more modern version
of Sparke streaming that is still in alpha at the point of this filming so we won't be using it.
But I do want you to be aware of it.
So if you come over as documentation and go to latest release sparked 2.1 then you can come to programming
guides.
And what we're going to be using is called SPARC streaming.
But there's also structured streaming and I want to quickly talk about structures streaming before we
jump straight into Sparke streaming.
So he comes to structure streaming.
There is a very large overview page but keep in mind that it's still an alpha it's not even in beta
yet so it is quite early.
But basically what this is it's it's using Spark's sessions what we've been using throughout the course
for streaming and what it does it's it's basically Sparke streaming that's running on top of the sparks
sequel engine and then you can use that data set and data from API.
Either Skala a Java or Python and eventually at some point in the future this is going to be your main
go to whenever approaching a streaming problem.
And if you come over here they actually already have quick examples.
And what we're going to do is work through the sparks streaming examples not these structures me examples
because this is still too early to basically use it responsibly.
You shouldn't really be using this in a production setting.
We should be using at this point in time is the regular SPARC streaming but once you've done Sparke
streaming you should come over to structure streaming and check out the examples.
It'll be really easy to follow along.
It's just basically a few different imports and the syntax has changed.
But what's actually going on is quite similar.
Or along the same lines and to basically kind of show you a simple example if you keep scrolling down
here and as a basic overview of what you can think structures streaming is is it similar to taking that
data stream input and then separating it into batches.
But every piece of data in the data stream is a new row appended to an unbound the table.
Basically what the unbound the table means is that it's unbounded in terms of limits of how large it
was.
We've been working around the data where we actually already know how large the data file is this case
it's about the table.
So you can just keep adding new streams to it and then you have actual triggers they can do so a query
on that actual input generates a result table and every trigger interval say every second new rows get
appended to the input table which eventually updates the result table and whenever the result table
gets updated where you want to do is write the change result rows to the what's known as an external
sync.
So that's basically what it looks like here.
This is for structures streaming not sparks streaming.
Keep that in mind.
So you have a trigger that's the query and the result and then some sort of output.
OK.
So you can keep looking at this page if you're interested in more details of this.
This is still in alpha I want to stress that it will be the future but it's still a little too early
for us to really use this responsibly in a production environment.
So we'll come back up here.
I do want you to check this out at some point in your free time.
But if you come back to programming guides will focus on sparc streaming because this is the most stable
version that's been used a lot already connects with all those external sources et cetera.
So what we're going to work through is this quick example we'll do that in the next lecture and we'll
be using a streaming context and we'll also be importing a spark context now context and spark context
in general.
That was the main way of using SPARC before SPARC 2.0 switched to that SPARC sequel and SPARC data frames
SPARC sessions.
So this is kind of a bit of a throwback but it's the most stable version especially when dealing with
streaming data you want stuff to be stable and used and tested heavily.
So we're this what we're going to be focusing on where we'll work through this simple example of reading
stuff that's going into the terminal using Python and then later on we'll also work with actually using
this with Twitter.
So coming back up here you can see those diagrams that we were explaining before.
You can check out the MLM operations that are available.
But what I wanted to tell you about was inputting from different sources.
Cephalic here it says input streams and receivers.
It will take you to the general documentation part where it talks about some advanced sources like Kafka.
Flume can ysis and these are things you may be using at a place of work.
So if you keep scrolling down here beyond basic sources it'll come to advanced sources.
And then it also has some notes about the python API.
So as a spark to point one point one which is the latest version Kafka needs some flumes are now available
in the Python API these to not be.
But if you continue going here this is where I really want to point out some details under Kafka Flemington
ysis.
There are certain compatability issues and there's full integration guides for more details.
So for example let's say at your place of work you want to implement some Spark's streaming tools with
Kafka.
So once you're on this guide or integration guide page you'll notice that there's actually some details
regarding certain versions of the consumer API for Kafka especially between versions 0.8 0.9 and 0.10.
So there's actually two separate corresponding Sparke streaming packages.
And so for these advanced sources you may find yourself using There's corresponding Spurr extreme and
packages not all of them are available for Python.
So for Python you're going to have to use this SPARC streaming Kafka 0.8.
Now it does work and it is compatible with 0.9 0.10 brokers but there are certain capabilities that
it doesn't have.
So it can't do things like SSL support or offset API.
Now the higher versions of Kafka streaming 0.10 this is still an experimental API and it's actually
not available for Python yet.
That's probably something that's going to come with SPARC 2.2.
So I just want you to be aware when dealing with some of these advance sources.
Not everything is going to be available for you in Python.
However maybe you just wait a year.
Heck the way SPARC moves at such speed.
You maybe even wait for months and stuff will be available more and more.
Keep in mind things are always experimental and buggy when they first come out.
So if you want true stability always go something that's labeled stable.
OK.
So definitely check out the rest of that programming guide.
It's really quite thorough and it has a ton of information on it.
But for now let's hop over and willing to open up my virtual box in the next lecture and set up a simple
example of using Sparke streaming to reach streaming data from our own terminal.
Thanks and I'll see you at the next lecture.